# ngram-model
Basic Ngram model interface using nltk

# Requirements
## Install dependencies  

`pip install -r requirements.txt`  

## Python version  

This program has been tested with the linux version of Python 3.9.21 with pyenv as an environment manager.  

# Usage
1. Run main.py
    `python main.py`

2. Interface
    ```
    [1] Load training Data
    [2] Generate Text
    [3] Save model (Currently requires large amount of RAM with larger models)
    [4] Load model
    [5] Add dataset
    [6] Exit
    1-6:
    ```
    ## Load training Data
    The program will ask for the path to the training data. This training data must be in an unannotated syntax. The path can either lead to a file or a folder with multiple datasets. After that the program asks for the wanted value of N. If no value is given it will default to 2. The value of N will define what the order of the ngram model will be and therefore directly affects the model size and results.

    ## Generate Text
    The user can input preceeding text to generate from onward. If no text is given, the program will generate a random text. After that the program asks for the amount of sentences that will be generated. If no value is given it will default to 1.

    ## Save the model
    Specify a filepath to store the file to. If the model is trained on a large dataset or has a relatively high value for N, a large amount of ram is needed to save the model.

    ## Load a model
    Specify a filepath to a file generated by this program to load a model.

    ## Add dataset
    Additional datasets can be added to the model. The dataset must be in the same unannotated syntax as the initial training data.

    ## Exit
    Exits the program.